The literature indicates a scarcity of datasets pertaining to the instance segmentation of different kinds of strawberry diseases. Although various models have been developed to perform object detection for [multiple diseases in strawberries](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpls.2020.559172/full), there is much to be desired when it comes to datasets allowing fine-grained instance segmentation of multiple diseases and pests in strawberries. In an attempt to fill that void, authors introduce a **Strawberry Disease Detection** dataset that allows users to segment seven different kinds of strawberry diseases. Since this dataset consists of images that are collected in real fields/green houses instead of a laboratory, it introduces multiple challenges such as having background variations, complex field conditions, different illumination settings, etc. As a result, these variations allows us to design models that have a higher capacity to be more robust and generalizable.

The dataset contains 2500 images for strawberry diseases collected from various greenhouses using camera-equipped mobile phones. The data was collected from multiple greenhouses under natural illumination conditions in South Korea to ensure a diversity of environmental factors. The diseases were verified by experts in the field. Note that approximately 20% of the images contained in the dataset were collected from online sources (Università di Bologna, Bugwood.org (accessed on 22 July 2021); Ontario Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs (OMAFRA); Nicole Ward Gauthier, University of Kentucky; Gerald Holmes, Strawberry Center, Cal Poly San Luis Obispo, Bugwood.org; William W. Turechek USDA ARS; Frank J. Louws, NC State University; Steven Koike, Plant Pathology Farm Advisor, University of California Agriculture and Natural resources blogs; Garrett Ridge, NC State University; Cornell University; College of Agriculture and Life Science blogs; Madeline Dowling, phytographics.com (accessed on 22 July 2021); Jonas Janner Hamann, Universidade Federal de Santa Maria (UFSM), Bugwood.org; Clemson University—USDA Cooperative Extension Slide Series, Bugwood.org; University of Georgia Plant Pathology, University of Georgia, Bugwood.org; Paul Bachi, University of Kentucky Research and Education Center, Bugwood.org; Scott Bauer, USDA Agricultural Research Service, Bugwood.org; John Hartman, University of Kentucky, Bugwood.org; more details in <i>dataset.txt</i> in original data.). The images in the dataset are processed to be of resolution 419 × 419. With regards to imaging distance, the dataset provides both close-up and distant views of the diseases. The dataset is composed of seven different types of strawberry diseases, with images ranging from initial, middle and final stages of the diseases. The dataset is split into 1450, 307 and 743 images for *train*, *val* and *test* sets, respectively. Table 1 provides a brief summary of this dataset. Online augmentation methods are used and as a result, the final number of images depends on the number of epochs the model is trained on the dataset. The dataset will be made publicly available for further experimentation.

| Category of Disease   | Images for Training | Images for Validation | Images for Testing |
|-----------------------|---------------------|-----------------------|--------------------|
| *angular_leafspot*      | 245                 | 43                    | 147                |
| *anthracnose_fruit_rot* | 52                  | 12                    | 33                 |
| *blossom_blight*        | 117                 | 29                    | 62                 |
| *gray_mold*             | 255                 | 77                    | 145                |
| *leaf_spot*             | 382                 | 71                    | 162                |
| *powdery_mildew_fruit*  | 80                  | 12                    | 43                 |
| *powdery_mildew_leaf*   | 319                 | 63                    | 151                |
| **Total**             | **1450**            | **307**               | **743**

<i>Table 1. A summary of the dataset.</i>
